ZenML Collaboration docs (#597)
zenml-io/zenml: docs/book/collaborate/zenml-server.md

---
description: Use ZenML in a Collaborative Setting with the ZenServer.
---

# The ZenML Server

Sometimes, you may need to exchange or collaborate on Stack configurations with
other developers or even just have your Stacks available on multiple machines.
While you can always zip up your Profile files or check [the local ZenStore](./profiles.md)
files into version control, a more elegant solution is have some kind of service

> accessible from anywhere in your network and providing a REST API that can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accessible from anywhere in your network that provides a REST API that can be
```

used to store and access your Stacks over the network.

The ZenServer, short for ZenML Server, is a distributed client-server ZenML
deployment scenario in which multiple ZenML clients can connect to a remote
service that provides persistent storage and acts as a central management hub
for all ZenML operations involving Stack configurations, Stack Components and
other ZenML objects.

Working with a ZenServer involves two main aspects: deploying the ZenServer
somewhere and connecting to it from your ZenML client. Keep reading to
learn more about how to configure your ZenML client to connect to a remote
ZenServer instance, or jump straight to the available ZenServer deployment
options by visiting the relevant sections:

* [run a ZenServer locally](#running-the-zenserver-locally)
* [deploy ZenServer with Docker](#deploy-the-zenserver-with-docker)
* (more to come ...)

{% hint style="info" %}
The ZenServer is still undergoing heavy development. Some features are in Alpha
state and may change in future releases. We are also working on providing more

> deployment and life-cycle management options for the ZenServer that will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deployment and lifecycle management options for the ZenServer that will
```

Running with active profile: 'default' (global)
Initializing profile zenml-remote...
Profile 'zenml-remote' successfully created.

$ zenml profile set zenml-remote 
Running without an active repository root.
Running with active profile: 'devel' (global)
Active profile changed to: 'zenml-remote'
```

All ZenML Pipelines executed while the ZenServer backed Profile is active will
use the Stack and Stack Component definitions stored on the server.

## Running the ZenServer Locally

The ZenServer can be deployed locally on any machine, as a means of assessing
its functionality without going through the pains of provisioning a complicated
infrastructure setup. Starting a local ZenServer instance is as simple as typing
`zenml service up`. This will start the server as a background daemon process
accessible on your local machine, by default on port 8000:

```
$ zenml server up
Running without an active repository root.
Starting a new ZenServer local instance.
ZenServer running at 'http://127.0.0.1:8000/'.
```

The local ZenServer exposes a local REST API through which clients can access
the same data available in your active Profile. You can also specify a different

> profile by passing the `--profile=$PROFILE_NAME` command line argument, or change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
profile by passing the `--profile=$PROFILE_NAME` command-line argument, or change
```

the HTTP port and address on which the ZenServer is accepting requests using
`--port=$PORT` and `--ip-address=$IP_ADDRESS`.The following example creates
a new SQL profile named `zen-server` and starts a ZenServer with that profile

> that listens to the 8080 port on all interfaces. This is a typical use case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that listens to port 8080 on all interfaces. This is a typical use case
```
